# Islandora Fedora 4 Interest Group: Meeting 01

## July 10, 2014 2:00-3:00 ADT

## Agenda

1. Introductions: Who are you and why did you join this group?

2. Fedora 4 features
	
	1. What features of Fedora 4 are most interesting in the context of Islandora?
	2. Are there any missing features that would impact integration?
	3. Do you have any use cases you’d like to submit?

3. Islandora/Fedora 4 integration
	
	1. What is the roadmap for integration?
	2. Can we start with a minimum prototype?
	3. What is the level of effort involved?
	4. Who can contribute either developer time or money?

4. Next steps: How do we move this forward?

## Attendees

* Andrew Woods (DuraSpace)
* David Wilcox (DuraSpace)
* Chad Nelson (LYRASIS)
* David Evans 
* Jared Whiklo (University of Manitoba)
* Ed Fugikawa (Colorado Alliance)
* Ashok Modi (Cherry Hill Company)
* Donald Moses (University of Prince Edward Island)
* Nick Ruest (York University)

## Notes

**Introductions**

Andrew Woods

* Fedora Technical Lead
* Important that the concerns/sensibilities that Islandora has are represented in the process/development
* Getting Islandora into the convo more prominently

Chad Nelson (LYRASIS)

* Working with Islandora (D7/F3)
* Interested in Fedora 4

David Evans

* Has worked with Islandora, D6 and D7
* Interested in F4 and D8
* Has done some experimental work

Donald Moses (UPEI)

* Has downloaded and installed Fedora 4.0 Beta
* Interested in new features like Linked Open Data support (e.g. RDF metadata)

Jared Whiklo (University of Manitoba)

* Tasked with learning how the backend of Fedora 4 works
* Investigating a production ready way to run multiple systems

Nick Ruest (York University)

* Interested in Fedora4
* Likes what Fedora4 brings to the table

Ed Fugikawa (Colorado Alliance)

* Multiple versions of Fedora running (2.x/3.x)
* Would like to merge all of those into one version (Fedora 4.x)

Ashok Modi (Cherry Hill)

* Started with Fedora 3.6, upgraded to 3.7
* Interested in F4

David Wilcox (DuraSpace)

* Straddles both communities (Islandora and Fedora)
* Product Manager for Fedora
* Sees a lot of potential in F4 for improving Islandora
* It’s possible to represent F3 content in F4 (eg. mirror the modeling) but there is an opportunity to take advantage of the new features F4 provides

**Ramping Up with Fedora 4**

Fedora training/workshops/camps

* Learn about Fedora4
* Ashok:
	* “Interesting. Since a large chunk of the folks in here are in the Islandora/Fedora camp, would it make sense to have a combined camp of both (or one after the other within the same city/venue)?”
* Posts to mailing lists re: training

Pilot projects

* Will need a few of those
* Lots of different content models and data structures
* More than one migration path

Focus on Greenfield (new) installations initially

* New content, not migrations

What would a prototype look like?

* What models?
	* Core Module
	* Collection Module
	* Tuque 

Discussion re: D7 and D8 implementation

* A number of votes for D7 and F4 … we may miss the boat if we wait for D8
* D.Evans thinks that D8 offers some advantages
* D.Wilcox … thinks it makes sense to put some effort towards a D7/F4 

How to get that work done ?

* How do we fund it
* How do we get developers involved
* Nick 
	* Further discussion in Roadmap
	* Produce a [doc](https://docs.google.com/document/d/17Rl7qC5CRHfiMLQnRiMqdp5kR7kcL9ok-Bb9MJkwUgE/edit) to work through the details 
		* Similar to F4 sprints
			* Organize sprint and community efforts/resources
		* Sprint planning
		* Use cases for the three items identified
		* Identify the benefits
	* Decouple dependency on discoverygarden for development

Andrew

* Discuss the F4 community effort
* Collected use cases
* Defined sprints and the priorities

David W

* Need buy in from developers, repository managers, and upper managers
* Esp managers if we want to free up dev time

Jared

* Outline of tasks
* eg. migrating tuque library
* Learning by doing 

Chad

* Identify the benefit each sprint
* eg. new features not in F3, fixing an existing problem, etc.
* Andrew would be interested in what those improvements might be.

David W

* Create project plan
* Use cases and grievances/improvements/benefits
* Scratchpad for brainstorming ideas
