# Islandora Fedora 4 Interest Group: Meeting 02

## August 21, 2014 11:00-12:00 ADT

## Agenda

1. Review of last meeting

2. Project plan
  
	1. What’s missing
	2. Estimating the level of effort to plan and build an initial prototype
 	3. Who needs to be involved?

3. Resources

	1.Who can do the work?
	2. How do we secure funding and coordinate development effort?
	3. Which institutions should we reach out to?

## Attendees

* David Wilcox (DuraSpace)
* Nick Ruest (York University)
* Danny Lamb (discoverygarden)
* Kevin Clarke (UCLA)
* Rosemarie Le Faive (UPEI)
* Caleb Derven (University of Limerick)

## Notes

**Review of last meeting**

Nick reviewed the [minutes from the last meeting](https://github.com/Islandora/Islandora-Fedora4-Interest-Group/blob/master/meetings/01.md)

**Project plan**

Initial questions

* Peter: Is this the right time to rewrite the software?
	* Danny: Ideally yes, but it depends on available resources.
* Rosie: Do we need to design a new data model?
	* David: We can use the same data model in Fedora 4 that we used in Fedora 3, but there are new opportunities to change/improve.

Building a prototype

* Danny: How we choose to use Fedora 4 will dictate how we port tuque, which will dictate the rest of the integration process.
* The first attempt will be to mirror what we do in Fedora3 with Fedora4 and then figure out how to affix JCR properties at a later time.
* Need to define MVP for Fedora4 integration.

**Resources**

* We should make a plan first, then pitch that to get funding (not the other way around!)  
* Create a document similar to the [Fedora 4 Prospectus](https://wiki.duraspace.org/display/FF/Fedora+Four+Prospectus)
* dgi will most likely contribute Danny and Adam’s time on a rolling basis sometime after October.  
* It is important that this is a community effort, particularly for the distribution of knowledge of the codebase.

## Actions
  
* Add detail and estimates to the [Project planning document](https://docs.google.com/document/d/17Rl7qC5CRHfiMLQnRiMqdp5kR7kcL9ok-Bb9MJkwUgE) for an initial MVP (Danny)
* Create prospectus for the work that includes financial and development resources requirements (David and Nick)
