# Islandora Fedora 4 Interest Group: Meeting 02

## January 30, 2015 1:00-2:00 EST

Call details: Skype (add ruestn as a contact)

## Agenda

1. Introductions

2. Updates
  * Overall updates (Nick/Danny/Melissa)
  * Technical overview (Danny)
  * [Upgration](https://wiki.duraspace.org/display/FF/Upgration+Pilot+-+York+University) (Nick)
  
3. Planning
  * Communication
  * Github issues
  * Volunteers
  * Sprints

## Attendees

* Nick Ruest (York University)
* Danny Lamb (discoverygarden)
* Melissa Anez (Islandora Foundation)
* Robin Dean (Colorado Alliance)
* Ed Fugikawa (Colorado Alliance)
* Mark Jordan (SFU)
* Danny Lamb (discoverygarden)
* Diego Pino (REUNA)
* Lingling Jiang (UTSC)
* Jared Whiklo (University of Manitoba)
* Mark Cooper (LYRASIS)
* Caleb Derven (University of Limerick)
* Donald Moses (UPEI)
* Alex Garnett (SFU)
* Mike Durbin (UVA)
* Aaron Coburn (Amherst)
* Logan Cox (University of Oklahoma)
* Gavin Morris

## Notes

### Introductions
  * Introductions and thanks to Diego for answering questions on the Islandora mailing list

### Updates from Nick (community/project)
  * Created the Islandora labs [Github org](https://github.com/islandora-labs/) repo with [proof-of-concept module](https://github.com/islandora-labs/islandora) 
  * Learning from the past by starting with a nice devops environment: https://github.com/Islandora-Labs/islandora_chef
  * Nick and Danny are on the Fedora 4 tech calls every week and working with Fedora community
  * Every other week, there's a call with Fedora community members specifically about Fedora/Islandora integration (contact Nick if interested in participating)

### Updates from Danny (software/technical overview)
  * Rough draft of technical documentation: https://github.com/Islandora-Labs/islandora/blob/7.x-2.x/docs/technical_documentation.md
  * Camel app that consumes messages from Fedora 4 and converts them into appropriate JSON format for interacting with Fedora 4 (building on Aaron Coburn's fcrepo camel module, thanks Aaron!)
  * Working on defining separate layers of Islandora; focusing on the "middle layer" that has formerly been Drupal php modules
  * Benefits
    * Start using persistent queues, can allow for putting the middleware layer on separate servers 
    * Current thinking: will not have tuque, xml forms, gsearch anymore because middleware layer will provide those functionalities
    * Treating Drupal like any other component of the stack; indexing in Drupal for display using nodes, fields, and other parts of the Drupal ecosystem
    * Trying to have many granular components rather than generic tools that try to do everything
  * Question about Drupal 8: are we making decisions now that will make it easier to move to the very different architecture in Drupal 8?
    * Answer: services module will help with this: https://www.drupal.org/project/services
    * Headless Drupal 7: is it possible to use this? Some would prefer to do it this way (+4 from group). Services in Drupal 7 seems to be pretty well supported and should do what we need it to do. 
    * REST API endpoints could be the same in Drupal 7 and Drupal 8? Yes, trying to use standard endpoints.
    * Aaron was using a headless repository with tuque/ Drupal 7 but has moved on to a custom Hydra head for admin interface plus a backbone. 
  * Focus right now is Fedora-Drupal connection, admin interface will happen later
  * Bulk upload/bulk ingest into Fedora is a big unknown right now

### Feedback & Questions
  * Diego currently using ontologies & Solr Cloud to sync repositories; will have to rethink everything if tuque goes away
  * Danny: would still be able to use PHP / Guzzle to interact with repos. Mapping how you interacted with F3 to F4 will be the bulk of the work, but if you're already relying on triplestores, that should make things easier. There will still be Solr and a triplestore in the stack. 
  * Nick: need to have use cases to make sure we're keeping functionality that people need. Please add use cases to the issues queue in the Fedora 4 IG: https://github.com/Islandora/Islandora-Fedora4-Interest-Group/issues
  * Will also be good to look at Hydra use cases/methods. What should be in interfaces and what should be in the Fedora layer for both projects to share?
  * Mark: Is the triplestore going to be optional in Fedora 4? Required for collection hierarchy now.
  * Danny: Will need to map node IDs in Drupal to paths in Fedora for inter-object relationships.
  * Not sure how Drupal 7's built-in RDF functionality can help: only exports RDF, and can't import it
  * Andrew: Fedora code translates between how things are stored in infinispan/modeshape and what is exposed in the REST API, which is triples. Fedora 4 "looks like" a triplestore but is not really storing things as triples and doesn't have a SPARQL endpoint. Stores data as name-value pairs and translates to/from triples when needed.

### Upgration
* What is upgration? A portmanteau of "upgrade" and "migration" 
* https://wiki.duraspace.org/display/FF/Fedora+3+to+4+Upgration
* https://wiki.duraspace.org/display/FF/Upgration+Pilot+-+York+University
* Have identified objects made from each solution pack as test cases for upgration
* York UL Islandora keeps closely to core Islandora code (not highly customized) but doesn't include Scholar module
* Fedora community talking about a migration utility that will go through FOXML and map datastreams to Fedora 4
  * https://wiki.duraspace.org/display/FF/Fedora+3+to+4+Data+Migration  
  * Will need audit trail & audit functionality - possibly in March 2015 sprint
  * Discussions about archive vs migrate versions of FOXML
  * What about restricted objects/XACML? Can cause problems with migrations.
  * What are we going to do about content models? Not sure yet, will need community discussion.

### Original migration plan/proposal
* https://docs.google.com/document/d/1C6JvuHEJok4FxnXsZoLNGAMGYCezY_Utz6SDht3CZdU/edit
* Do we need a new, generic upgration page? Can we work from the 2 existing use cases? Use cases don't include Scholar or Newspaper at the moment; community is welcome to add to the use case issue queue in GitHub. 
* Have enough to start on the command line utility for migration, can adapt it to more use cases later.
* Hydra use cases/content models? Penn State doing some pilot upgration work. Hydra emphasized RDF-based models in Fedora 3. Change is that RDF was being stored as a datastream in F3 and is stored as RDF properties on a node in F4, so it's a matter of translating the datastream to the properties. 
* Nick will work on taking a DS Composite datastream and mapping it to Fedora 4 model

### Communication
* Meetings of this group will be announced on the Islandora mailing list.
* This meeting will be a monthly meeting: every 4th Friday at 1 PM Eastern time.
* Please volunteer for coding, testing, documentation if you can. Some institutions have pledged in-kind time; contact Nick so he can start to arrange sprints. 
* Parting thoughts from Diego: will this still be Islandora when we're done? Or do we need a new name? Something to gather input about in the future...
