# Islandora Fedora 4 Interest Group: Meeting 08

## June 23, 2015 1:00-2:00 EST

Call details:

Call-in number - 866-994-3769<br />
Participant Code - 3226955

IRC:<br />
  Join the #islandora chat room via Freenode Web IRC (enter a unique nick)<br />
  Or point your IRC client to #isladora on irc.freenode.net

## Agenda

1. Introductions
2. OR2015 updates
  * [Upgrading? Migrating? There’s a portmanteau for that!](http://hdl.handle.net/10315/29516)
  * [Islandora and Fedora 4; The Atonement.](http://hdl.handle.net/10315/29505)
3. [migration-utils](https://github.com/fcrepo4-labs/migration-utils) updates
4. [Portland Common Data Model](https://wiki.duraspace.org/display/FF/Portland+Common+Data+Model) ([repo](https://github.com/duraspace/pcdm)) updates
5. Drupal integration updates
6. [Use cases](https://github.com/Islandora/Islandora-Fedora4-Interest-Group/labels/use%20case)
7. [WebAccessControl](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!topic/islandora/lwP7bUIlvAc)
  
## Attendees

* Nick Ruest (York University)
* Danny Lamb (discoverygarden)
* Melissa Anez (Islandora Foundation) :star:
* Jared Whiklo (University of Manitoba)
* Kim Pham (UTSC)
* Mark Cooper (LYRASIS)
* Andrew Woods (Duraspace)
* David Wilcox (Duraspace)
* Kevin Clarke (UCLA)

## Notes

* OR2015 updates: 
    * Pretty fantastic. See agenda for links to presentations relating to Fedora 4. Danny gave a high-level review of the stack. Important points: RDF to drupal, with user interfaces to handle the mapping! Use xpath to extract metadata and use that to create a drupal field. "Add Content" now works! 
Migration Utils:
   * A brave soul is trying out migration utils with Fedora 2
   * A few things left to do with checksums and we will have a generic Fedora 3 to 4 upgration tool. Next step is to use the PCDM. May be a sidecar util, may be a standalone tool.
* PCDM: a group got together and worked through issues around ordering. See links in the agenda if you have opinions about ordering in PCDM. 
   * Rob has put together some diagrams. 
   * Nick and Karen are going ot migrate the PCDM info from the wiki to github.
   * Andrew will do some work to make PDCM.org a thing.
* Integration updates:
   * Danny talked to a lot of folks at OR2015. Feedback is informaing the project. The biggest change: excising the java part of the stack (still using Camel, but just XML DSL). For processing, command-line PHP, which should be more comfortable for the Islandora community. Goal is to lower the barrier to contribution. 
      * Starting serious work to make the project easier to share. Tickets are coming, some marked for "newbies" to take on as an entry point to the project. Basic Image SP will be the first target. Contributors SO welcome!
      * A project update is coming. We have met and/or exceded pretty much all of our goals (not basic Image SP, but the over-acheivements on everything else kinda make up for it).
* WebAccessControl
   *  Am informal call with the Fedora group is coming up tomorrow to talk about how this might be integrated (all are welcome!). WAC is an emerging W3C standard and a way to move away from XACML (not that we're doing away with XACML!). Also has opportunities for a PCDM-like universal access control standard. Hydra stores their access control in Fedora using access conrol ontology.  
*  Other ways we can get folks involved:
   *  Nick will send a friendly note out to the listserv to welcome folks in on entry level tickets
     *  If anyone wants ot help craft that message, it's welcome
   *  Organize some sprints? Maybe a joint Fedora/Islandora sprint, with tweaks at both levels.
