# Islandora Fedora 4 Interest Group: Meeting 10

## August 28, 2015 1:00-2:00 EST

Call details:
  * Call-in number - 866-994-3769
  * Participant Code - 3226955
  * IRC:
    * Join the #islandora chat room via [Freenode Web IRC](https://webchat.freenode.net/) (enter a unique nick)
    * Or point your IRC client to #isladora on irc.freenode.net

## Agenda

1. Introductions
2. Islandora Conference
3. Future of the project
  * Roles
    * Danny & Nick
    * Committers
  * Interest groups
  * Community sprints
    * November 2-14, 2015
4. Sandbox
5. [Hydra/Islandora Common Practices](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1BDrInNgg2aA6i6i4fi7zH6pK6HfsPamJgkce3pjRslg/edit#heading=h.uk7m472me211)
  * Hydra Connect
  * Islandora Camp CT
6. Interest Group report

## Attendees

* Nick Ruest (York University)
* Danny Lamb (discoverygarden)
* Melissa Anez (Islandora Foundation)
* Andrew Woods (DuraSpace)
* Jared Whiklo (University of Manitoba) :star:
* Diego Pino (REUNA)
* Rosie Lefaive (UPEI)
* Mark Cooper (LYRASIS)
* David Wilcox (DuraSpace)

## Notes

####1. Introductions
 
- - -
#### 2. Updates
 * Nick and Danny did another update at the Islandora conference, new things since OR 2015.
 * Also had a workshop at the Islandora conference, it was more of an in-depth dive into the stack.
 * Got it functioning enough to put on sandbox for the Islandora Conference
 * Danny needs more eyes on it, more review of code and also process. Does it do things the best way, is there another way. Now is the time to discuss.
 * York donated VM to get setup with Islandora 7.x-2.x sandbox

- - -
#### 3. Future of project
 * Initial phase started last Dec, got Danny till Islandora Conference
 * Foundation is ready for the community to step up.
 - Fedora 3 is end of life, so we need to start investing in the new stack.
 - First community sprint on the Islandora 7.x-2.x stack happens the first 2 weeks of November 2015.
 - Formalizing committers for the new stack using the Fedora model
  - https://wiki.duraspace.org/display/FF/Fedora+Committers
  - https://wiki.duraspace.org/display/FF/New+Committer+Processes
 - Good to have involvement from most if not all of the Interest Groups as committers.
 - Andrew: On the Fedora4 side we pushed it too far before formalizing the process. The Islandora community could can get informal agreement on the initial 3 committers (Nick, Danny & Jared). Then make it the initial committers job to expand the base after a set amount of time and by a set amount of committers.
 - Send out the list, informing about initial committers with be addressed at the Roadmap committee meeting (Sept 4). Make your voice heard if you don't agree.
 - Nick: Suggests to stop adding new features to the 7.x-1.x stack and move more effort to the new stack.

Rosie : UI interest group's main focus was on the issues in the current stack, what would they do if we stop adding new features to 7.x-1.x
 - Adding use cases so the same mistakes made in old are not repeated.
 - Make UI not an after-thought, make active steps to provide a much better interface.
 - Drupal still has UI issues.
 - Discuss how future developments might appear (ie. headless interfaces).

Mark : Technical lead or project manager was discussed at the Islandora conference. Has there been any movement regarding raising funding for this position?
 - At the AGM, there is a push to get funding for continuing the project from all the initial funders at the same funding level to help with the project as a whole and funding a technical lead/project manager.

Danny : Get this work started so we don't get under the bus of a large project paid for by a single institution.
- - -
#### 4 - Sandbox
 - York has a VM ready to become a sandbox.
 - Comes down to Labour/time/resources
 - Simple sandbox, VM does not allow for templating.

Andrew : 
 - Fedora has a Jenkins server at U Maryland integrated with GitHub.
 - Commit to certain projects in GitHub, then Jenkins downloads HEAD from Github, builds it.
 - Deploys java modules to Maven repositories.
 - Builds core codebase and pushes the WAR to a VM at U of Texas.

Check for anyone else that has a machine that could do templating. (vagrant/puppet/chef/ansible)
 - Jared to see if U of M has templating with it's VMs.

- - -
#### 5 - Hydra Connect
Danny:
 - Going to HydraConnect
 - Small presentation on building services around Fedora.
 - Talk about PCDM and what we mean by Hydra/Islandora interoperability. Which probably leads to a solidifying of PCDM.
 - Hydra is already modeling with PCDM, so Islandora is a little behind. But PCDM is still in-process, 
 - Ideally standardize the relationships can be consistent between both types of applications. Common object modelling.

Andrew:
 - 2 very large communities that both leverage F4
 - Fedora is moving in a direction of making a very clear interface and API for higher-level apps.
 - Oppourtunity to consider what it would take to have an Islandora instance inter-changeable with a Hydra instance.
 - What would it take to make sense of the under-lying resources in Fedora.
 - Are there aspects of the API that are making this discussion more difficult, and could be reconsidered.
 - Similar use cases and similar concerns, let's talk about the fundamental aspects and how we could interact with Fedora in a similar way.
 - What features do we use / don't use. What are the commonalities and differences?
 - Continue over to the day at the end of the Islandora Camp CT.
 - Fedora is trying to use standards to ensure that you could swap other features in and not tie you to the Fedora product itself. 

- - -
#### 6. Interest Groups reports
 - Board of Directorys would like reports from all the interest groups, reporting to start this fall.
 - Nick and Danny will be collecting information and will send out to the group to review.

- - -
#### Other Business  
 - Islandora 7.x-2.x has been architectured to be scalable but hasn't been stress tested. 
 - Goal is to push tasks/messages out to remote task queue, possibly anywhere.
 - Danny has played with Gearman and Celery.
 - Has anyone had any experience with any other products?? No responses.
 
Next meeting September 25, 2015 @ 13:00 ET,
