# Islandora Fedora 4 Interest Group: Meeting 11

## September 25, 2015 1:00-2:00 EST

Call details:
  * Call-in number - 866-994-3769
  * Participant Code - 3226955
  * IRC:
    * Join the #islandora chat room via [Freenode Web IRC](https://webchat.freenode.net/) (enter a unique nick)
    * Or point your IRC client to #isladora on irc.freenode.net

## Agenda

1. Introductions
2. [Hydra/Islandora Common Practices](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1BDrInNgg2aA6i6i4fi7zH6pK6HfsPamJgkce3pjRslg/edit#heading=h.uk7m472me211)
  * Hydra Connect
  * Islandora Camp CT
3. [Interest group report](https://docs.google.com/document/d/15TEYhj9HCyO6AR7_UobB2PzDIx0brr4C8x47seu1si0/edit#heading=h.o5x2g31mva0r)
4. Future of the projects
  * [Committers proposal](https://gist.github.com/ruebot/74ada12e0813319eec51)
  * Interest groups
    * DevOps
    * Metadata
    * UIIG
    * Documentation
    * Preservation
    * IR
5. Community sprints
    * November 2-14, 2015
    * Focus
6. Sandbox
7. Training/Study groups
8. Fedora API Extension architecture and overlap with current efforts
9. Call for input on another design iteration, including ^^

## Attendees

* Nick Ruest (York University)
* Danny Lamb (discoverygarden)
* Melissa Anez (Islandora Foundation)
* Aaron Coburn (Amherst College)
* Diego Pino (REUNA)
* Kelli Babcock (University of Toronto)
* Andy Wagner (University of Toronto)
* Rosie La Faive (UPEI)
* Donald Moses (UPEI)
* Mark Jordan (Simon Fraser University) :star:
* Ed Fugikawa (University of Wyoming)
* Ryan Townsed (discoverygarden)
* Jared Whilko (University of Manitoba)
* Lingling Jiang (UTSC)

## Notes

1. Introductions
2. [Hydra/Islandora Common Practices](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1BDrInNgg2aA6i6i4fi7zH6pK6HfsPamJgkce3pjRslg/edit#heading=h.uk7m472me211)
  * Hydra Connect: Danny's report:
    * Ben Armintor showed how to migrate form F3 and F4; Danny had a TN listener running which worked.
    * PCDM: We now have a standardized (Hydra and Islndnora) way of locating non-RDF descriptive metadata in F4. Ex. dcterms.conformsTo a metadata namespace (inc. versions)
    * Work on read-only interoperabilty but have a while to go before we have read/write. We can read theirs objects but they can't read ours yet. Some discussion among the group about use cases for this interoperability: one F4, multiple heads; using Hydra for administrative tasks, something else for public access; shared bulk loading tools.
    * Revisiting how orderings are implemented to use hash URIs instead of proxies.
    * Rob Sanderson is creating a W3C working group for PCDM. Danny: "We're big kids now."
  * Islandora Camp CT on [Oct 23 a day on common/shared practices](http://islandora.ca/camps/ct2015/hylandoraday)
3. [Interest group report](https://docs.google.com/document/d/15TEYhj9HCyO6AR7_UobB2PzDIx0brr4C8x47seu1si0/edit#heading=h.o5x2g31mva0r)
    * Nick highligted the sustainability issue described at the end.
    * Kelli asked about a switchover date; Nick responded that the more resources we have to work on 7.x-2, the sooner we'll have a first version.
    * Danny added that community should drive the development, not only clients with money.
4. Future of the projects
  * [Committers proposal](https://gist.github.com/ruebot/74ada12e0813319eec51)
  * Interest groups
    * DevOps
    * Metadata
    * UIIG
    * Documentation
    * Preservation
    * IR
   * Mark asked about how formal the relationship between the F4 group and the various interest groups. Consensus was that we may not want to formalize the relationships but having reps from those groups in the F4 group and the development of 7.x-2 is extremely important.
   * Nick pointed out that for Islandora to move into the future, we need a Technical Lead. To hire one, the Islandora Foundation needs financial support. Please contact Melissa or Mark J. if you want some tips on advocating to your employer for financially supporting the Islandora Foundation.
5. Community sprints
    * First one to focus on 7.x-2.x is November 2-14, 2015
    * Focus
      * Danny reminds people to play with 7.x-2 so they can start providing feedback
        * Donald reported a potential issue in populating initial collections; Danny will follow up.
        * Lingling also reported a similar issue; Danny responded by asking her to open a ticket.
        * Maybe get some assistance from the Documentation IG and also do some work on documentation during the sprint.
      * Some possible ideas:
        * Rosie suggested developing some docs on using Camel.
        * Maybe a reasonable focus is to get more devs and other users comfortable with the vagrant, docuemntation, and use cases.
6. Sandbox
  * Sanbox was taken down after the conference because of the cost of running it. Nick, Jared, Aaron, and Danny are working on finding an alternative at a community site.
  * Nick and Dan Aitken working on a Jenkins server for the project: http://xi.library.yorku.ca/
7. Training/Study groups
  * Rosie and Donald have been setting aside a couple of hours on Fridays to concentrate on 7.x-2.x. "If we don't start somewhere, we won't get anywhere."
  * Aaron mentioned the weekly Fedora Tech call (https://wiki.duraspace.org/display/FF/2015+-+Tech+Meetings) that is open to everyone to hang out in.
  * Danny pointed out that the hardest part of learning F4 will be understanding how data is modeled in F4. *Learn [PCDM](https://github.com/duraspace/pcdm/wiki) and [LDP](https://dvcs.w3.org/hg/ldpwg/raw-file/default/ldp-primer/ldp-primer.html).* ([This](http://hectorcorrea.com/#/blog/introduction-to-ldp/67) post by Hector Correa is also useful)
8. [Fedora API Extension architecture](https://wiki.duraspace.org/display/FF/Design+-+API+Extension+Architecture) and overlap with current efforts
  * Aaron explained it as affort to rethink monolithic repos like the current Islandora and Hydra as consumers of discrete services. Consistent with to current rearchitecting Islandora 7.x-2.x to use Camel.
9. Call for input on another 7.x-2.x design iteration
  * Danny suggested that now is a good time to refocus on the 7.x-2.x design. Community needs to get involved! "Let's make this software all that we want!"
10. Meeting adjourned at 2:00 EST.
