# Islandora Fedora 4 Interest Group: Meeting 12

## October 23, 2015 1:00-2:00 EST

Call details:
  * Call-in number - 866-994-3769
  * Participant Code - 3226955
  * IRC:
    * Join the #islandora chat room via [Freenode Web IRC](https://webchat.freenode.net/) (enter a unique nick)
    * Or point your IRC client to #isladora on irc.freenode.net

## Agenda

1. Introductions
2. [Committers Process](http://islandora-labs.github.io/islandora/contributing/committers/)
  * Welcome
    * Diego Pino
    * Aaron Coburn
  * 7.x-2.x Committers/Tech calls
3. [Chullo](http://github.com/islandora-labs/chullo)
4. [Porkpie](https://github.com/daniel-dgi/porkpie)
5. Coding standards
6. [Hydra/Islandora Common Practices](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1BDrInNgg2aA6i6i4fi7zH6pK6HfsPamJgkce3pjRslg/edit#heading=h.uk7m472me211)
  * Islandora Camp CT
7. Sandbox - future.islandora.ca
8. Community sprint
9. Selecting a PHP microframework based on [this conversation](https://github.com/islandora-interest-groups/Islandora-Fedora4-Interest-Group/issues/38)

## Attendees

* Nick Ruest (York University)
* Danny Lamb (discoverygarden) :star: (1-5)
* Melissa Anez (Islandora Foundation) :star: (6-9)
* Diego Pino (REUNA)
* Jared Whiklo (University of Manitoba)
* Aaron Coburn (Amherst College) 

## Notes

(See also [irc log](http://irclogs.islandora.ca/2015-10-23.html) from 13:00-14:00)

6. Danny went to HydraConnect for a day, met up with the Hydra folks and talked about interoperability. Worked out some issues with PCDM around descriptive metadata. Concluded that we can stick things like DC terms on files, even though PCDM files aren't really supposed to have descriptive metadata. No naming conventions for LDP containers. You should have to do a query to find members of a file's container. Talked about read-only versus read-write interoperability. Aiming for read-only first. We want to be able to put Islandora or Hydra on top of a PCDM Fedora and at least have it displayed. Being able to manage is a step for later. Hylandora Day (today!) has been alot of talk about data formats, hook derivatives.
7. Sandbox. Aaron, Danny, Nick, Jared, and Mark J had a wroking group to get an Islandora 7.x-2.x sandbox up and running. We had one for Camp but destroyed it afterwards because it was on Digital Ocean. UManitoba is sponsoring a year of hosting for a new one, which lives at future.islandora.ca. Built with vagrant witha DO provider tool. We have a snapshot so when/if it goes bad we can reload. Still needs a little work with users and security before we advertise it broadly - [related ticket](https://github.com/Islandora-Labs/islandora/issues/78). Aaron is going to use our snapshot for a presentation soon!
8. [Community Sprint](http://islandora.ca/content/7x-2x-sprint-001-planning). November 2 - 13. On the first day Danny and Nick will do an on-air Hangout (so there will be a recording) and go over the stack and how things work, then we can have a dicussion about the tickets we have and how best to use our two weeks. Most sprinters are in Eastern time, so we will start at 10 EST. Expect to learn as we go, spend a lot of this sprint getting people up to speed on the new stack - may not get any code written, and THAT IS FINE. 
9. Danny: We don't HAVE to do this, if people don't want to. We could do this all in java - but, the best way to do this if we want to emulate the benefits of OSGi, we shoud use a PHP microframework. We'll still lose some stuff, but this is the closest we can get. We have options: Silex (sp?), Slim, Symfony, Falcon. Let's just pick one - as long as we agree, we can make any of them work. Jared: would like whichever one will get used - but also a way to continue to use Camel if possible. Danny: this is just for microsrvices - all of the async stuff will still be in Camel. It does not have to be a complete replacement. At the end of the day, we need whatever will get more people working on the stack. This may be a decision for after the first couple of sprints, when more folks are in a position to have an informed opinion.

* Final thoughts from Diego: Get involved with PCDM. There is a mailing list, much discussion happening there and in GitHUb issues. The more Islandora people involved, the better.
